declarative: specify what not how

`Compact Profiles`, introduced in JDK 8, enable reduced memory footprint for applications that do not require the entire Java platform. The `javac` compiler has a `-profile` option, which allows the application to be compiled using one of the supported profiles.

### stream
Package [`java.util.stream`](https://docs.oracle.com/javase/8/docs/api/java/util/stream/package-summary.html): Classes to support functional-style operations on streams of elements

- `stream`的并发默认使用`ForkJoinPool.commonPool`
- `forEach`在并发时忽略`encounter order`，以提高效率
- 如果stream has a `encounter order`, 可用`unordered()`取消其顺序，来获得更好的并发性能(对部分操作有效)
- `reduce()`
    - three aspects of `reduce` -- `identity`, `accumulator`, and `combiner`
- The `mutable reduction operation` is called `collect()`
    - three aspects of `collect` -- `supplier`, `accumulator`, and `combiner`
    - 也可以用`reduce()`来做，但是有些操作可能影响较差，比如字符串拼接，直接用`String::concat`会带来大量字符串拷贝，不如用`StringBuilder`
    - Packaging mutable reductions into a `Collector` has another advantage: `composability`: 如group by and then aggragate
- `stream`: A sequence of elements supporting sequential and parallel aggregate operations.
    - compared to `Collections`:
        - No storage.
        - Functional in nature.
        - Laziness-seeking.
        - Possibly unbounded.
        - Consumable. elements are only visited once during the life of a stream 新的迭代需要用新的stream
    - 代码更简洁（abstract），方便改为并行
- `behavioral parameters`: Most `stream operations` accept parameters(`behavioral parameters`) that describe user-specified behavior. Such parameters are always instances of a `functional interface`, and are often `lambda expressions` or `method references`. To preserve correct behavior, these behavioral parameters:
    - must be `non-interfering` (they do not modify the stream source); Stream在`terminal operation`执行时才开始执行，所以在`terminal operation`执行前是可以修改`source`的
    - in most cases must be `stateless`
- stream shape: shape specializations for stream abstractions, 如IntStream，LongStream等，或者叫item type of stream?

### repeating annotation
For compatibility reasons, repeating annotations are stored in a container annotation that is automatically generated by the Java compiler. In order for the compiler to do this, two declarations are required in your code.
1. Declare a Repeatable Annotation Type
2. Declare the Containing Annotation Type

