### c++11
An xvalue (an “eXpiring” value) also refers to an object, usually near the end of its lifetime (so that its resources may be moved, for example). An xvalue is the result of certain kinds of expressions involving rvalue
    ______ ______
   /      X      \
  /      / \      \
 |   l  | x |  pr  |
  \      \ /      /
   \______X______/
       gl    r

#### The Biggest Changes in C++11
- Lambda Expressions
- Automatic Type Deduction and decltype
- Uniform Initialization Syntax
- Deleted and Defaulted Functions
- nullptr
- Delegating Constructors
- Rvalue References

### STL
list.end()在其生命周期内是不变的

#### The Rule of Three
If your class needs any of
- a copy constructor,
- an assignment operator,
- or a destructor,
defined explictly, then it is likely to need all three of them.

#### copy-and-swap idiom
Any class that manages a resource (a wrapper, like a smart pointer) needs to implement `The Big Three`. While the goals and implementation of the `copy-constructor` and destructor are straightforward, the `copy-assignment` operator is arguably the most nuanced and difficult. How should it be done? What pitfalls need to be avoided?

The copy-and-swap idiom is the solution, and elegantly assists the assignment operator in achieving two things: `avoiding code duplication`, and `providing a strong exception guarantee`.

Things that are declared as `rvalue reference can be lvalues or rvalues.` The distinguishing criterion is: if it has a name, then it is an lvalue. Otherwise, it is an rvalue.
Allowing move sematics to be applied tacitly to something that has a name would be dangerously confusing and error-prone because the thing from which we just moved, that is, the thing that we just pilfered, is still accessible on subsequent lines of code.

Ideally, as far as arg is concerned, everything should behave just as if the factory function weren't there and the constructor were called directly in the client code: `perfect forwarding`.

